.TH SUPPORTUTILS-SCRUB.CONF 5 "Thu Aug 23 2024"
.SH NAME
supportutils-scrub.conf \- Configuration file for supportutils-scrub
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/supportutils-scrub.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsupportutils-scrub.conf\fR is the configuration file for \fBsupportutils-scrub\fR, a tool designed to sanitize and remove sensitive data from SUSE supportconfig tarballs. This configuration file controls various aspects of the obfuscation process, including which types of data are obfuscated and the verbosity of the output.

The configuration file is typically located at \fB/etc/supportutils-scrub.conf\fR, but an alternative path can be specified when running the \fBsupportutils-scrub\fR command.

.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
Each configuration option is specified as a key-value pair in the format \fBkey = value\fR. Lines beginning with \fB#\fR are treated as comments and ignored.

.TP
.B obfuscate_private_ip
Determines whether private IP addresses (e.g., 10.x.x.x, 192.168.x.x) should be obfuscated. 
.PD 0
.IP * 2
\fBValues\fR: \fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR (default: no)
.PD
.TP
.B obfuscate_public_ip
Specifies whether public IP addresses should be obfuscated.
.PD 0
.IP * 2
\fBValues\fR: \fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR (default: yes)
.PD
.TP
.B obfuscate_domain
Indicates whether domain names should be obfuscated.
.PD 0
.IP * 2
\fBValues\fR: \fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR (default: yes)
.PD
.TP
.B obfuscate_username
Specifies whether usernames should be obfuscated.
.PD 0
.IP * 2
\fBValues\fR: \fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR (default: yes)
.PD
.TP
.B obfuscate_hostname
Determines whether hostnames should be obfuscated.
.PD 0
.IP * 2
\fBValues\fR: \fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR (default: yes)
.PD
.TP
.B obfuscate_ipv6
Indicates whether IPv6 addresses should be obfuscated.
.PD 0
.IP * 2
\fBValues\fR: \fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR (default: yes)
.PD
.TP
.B obfuscate_mac
Specifies whether MAC addresses should be obfuscated.
.PD 0
.IP * 2
\fBValues\fR: \fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR (default: yes)
.PD
.TP
.B verbose
Enables or disables verbose output during the obfuscation process. When enabled, more detailed logging information is provided.
.PD 0
.IP * 2
\fBValues\fR: \fItrue\fR or \fIfalse\fR (default: true)
.PD
.TP
.B log_level
Specifies the logging level for the application. This setting determines the amount of detail included in the logs.
.PD 0
.IP * 2
\fBValues\fR: \fInormal\fR or \fIverbose\fR (default: verbose)
.PD
.TP
.B use_key_words_file
Determines whether a file containing specific keywords should be used for obfuscation. If enabled, keywords found in the specified file will be obfuscated according to the configuration.
.PD 0
.IP * 2
\fBValues\fR: \fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR (default: yes)
.PD
.TP
.B key_words_file
Specifies the path to the file containing keywords to be obfuscated. Each keyword should be listed on a separate line.
.PD 0
.IP * 2
\fBDefault\fR: \fI/etc/supportutils-scrub-keywords.txt\fR
.PD

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/supportutils-scrub.conf
Default configuration file for \fBsupportutils-scrub\fR.
.TP
.B /etc/supportutils-scrub-keywords.txt
Default file containing keywords to be obfuscated, if \fBuse_key_words_file\fR is set to \fIyes\fR.

.SH AUTHOR
Ronald Pina <ronald.pina@suse.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR supportutils-scrub (1)
.BR supportconfig (1)

